---
title: 'FUAVE 2021'
date: 2021-10-28
permalink: /tips/2021/10/fuave2021/
author_profile: false
read_more: enabled
tags:
  - UAVs
  - Embbedded Systems

---

***Abstract:*** A brief abstract of FUAVE 2021 shared today with people. 



Keynote 01
=======
Keynote: What is CE marking?

Jukka Vuorinen, Director, Global Key Accounts at Intertek Finland

Efficiency Energy usage, Nano materials, etc in many potential technologies, for instance in UAVs. It will provide big business opportunities, but with risks.

What are the typical markets were you can see in the label of products.Risk analysis: (Documentation, artificial intelligence, etc.)

www.dedrone.com --> incidents with Drones and challenges with them.

Keynote 02
=======
FUAVE – Finnish UAV Ecosystem

Eija Honkavaara, FGI

what is FUAVE?, the idea is to create a bridge between academy and society

Hanny Karvonen
fn.sn@vtt.fi

Juha Roning
fn.sn@oulu.fi

FUAVE Temp D-Areas available/planned (interesting to test drones with all lay concerns and permissions to fly)

FUAVE Multidiscplinary disruptive Research

www.fuave.fi/research

Keynote 03
=======
Europe and Finland in the revolution of unmanned electrified aviation

Petri Mononen, VTT

UTM & U.Space: enabling complex drone operations

Funding from SESAR JU, H2020, Horizon Europe 2021 (not an specific topic for UAVs)

Drones4safety, rapid, 5Daerosafe, ..., TINDAIR, ...

P2P collab in drones: UIC2, SESAR JU VLDs, Intelligent transportation systems, 

VTT + UAVs:
AirMOUR: 
DROLO:  RDI

Keynote 04
======
UAV Projects: 5G!Drones, HYFLIERS, DroneMaster, RoboMesh, FF2020

Juha Röning, University of Oulu


megatronic devices (uavs)

ADRA???

5G!Drones

HYFLIERS: oil Industry, uAVs should inspect the . Satellite , some videos are available...

ROboMESH: UAVs to collaborate

MRAT-SafeDrone: 

DroneMaser: www.dronemaster.fi


Keynote 05
======
UAV Projects: VED, UCNDrones, UAM Oulu

Vadim Kramar, Oulu University of Applied Sciences

UCN DRONES: www.UAS-Finland.eu


BREAK:
=====

SPS members are not receiving the EMAIL broadcasting ...


Keynote 06
=====
AFDA Keynote

Tuija Karanko, Association of Finnish Defence and Aerospace Industries

Are there restriction to provide Passport to researchers onit?
It depends of the nature of the nature of research project. 

Keynote 07
=====
Drone applications in mineral exploration

Ari Saarteenoja, Radai Ltd

Geophysical Surveys with Drones

measurement of magnetic with ANTENNAS OMNI and other specialized for mineral exploration.

50 min. of flying 

getting access from them: it is possible to do it. 

Challenges???

DATASET of SIGNAL Straingt *******


Keynote 08
=====
Geodrone6 in professional data collecting and surveying

Eero Vihavainen, Geotrim Ltd

Agriculture applications: Fast, flexible and easy to use.

hovering vs operating speed
without payload vs with Payload


GEOTRIM - Nordic Drones - 

corridor mission 8.5 km.

other: 10 m/s  -- 20 km

Other corridor
32 min
8 m/s
15 km
terrain follow


Keynote 09
=====
Nokia’s recent contribution in drone ecosystem

Juha Hannula, Nokia

Radio developing Oulu

DroLo: www.drolo.fi



Keynote 10
======
Wrap Up

Kimmo Paajanen, Oulu University of Applied Sciences



NEW ONLINE SESSION FUAVE
=====

Some comments:

- In Finland 133.325 MHz is RPAS frequency. This frequency can be used for any RPAS operation and for example informed in D-area activation NOTAM

- Very exciting presentations, proving how much is happening in this SPACE! As presented, we are building a R&D dedicated hangar and everyone interested, don't hesitate to contact us! There will be workspaces available. Oravasaari Tomi (tomi.oravasaari@xamk.fi) from XAMK is also a key contact do discuss (Eho Jouni).

- Helsinki East Aerodrome will also have renewable energy (solar) available to enable carbon neutral operations. Besides 5G, we have also discussed placing a small scale data center onsite to enable data storage and cyber security tests (Eho Jouni). 

- Pyhtää Fuave Test Area (neark Helsinki - 1 hour driving).

- BVLOS is not reliable when using 4G.

- 
